user_apps/tutorials/05_zerocopy_pubsub.md, before:

# 05: ZeroCopy Pub/Sub

## Target

- `autosar_user_com_zerocopy_pub_template`
- `autosar_user_com_zerocopy_sub_template`
- Source:
  - `user_apps/src/apps/communication/zerocopy/pub_app.cpp`
  - `user_apps/src/apps/communication/zerocopy/sub_app.cpp`

## Purpose

- Use shared-memory-based communication with the `ara::com::zerocopy` API.
- Understand the basics of Loan / Publish and TryTake.

## Prerequisites

```bash
export AUTOSAR_AP_PREFIX=/opt/autosar_ap
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=${AUTOSAR_AP_PREFIX}/lib:${AUTOSAR_AP_PREFIX}/lib64:/opt/iceoryx/lib:${LD_LIBRARY_PATH:-}
```

Start RouDi if not already running.

## Run

Terminal 1:

```bash
./build-user-apps-opt/src/apps/communication/zerocopy/autosar_user_com_zerocopy_pub_template
```

Terminal 2:

```bash
./build-user-apps-opt/src/apps/communication/zerocopy/autosar_user_com_zerocopy_sub_template
```

## Customization Points

1. Adjust the channel identifiers (service/instance/event) to match your application values.
2. Calculate the loan size based on actual data size rather than a fixed length.
3. Add behavior for receive timeouts (retry, monitoring counter, etc.).

Commit message:

Add Switchable Pub/Sub User App with DDS and vSomeIP support
- Introduced a new user app demonstrating a Pub/Sub application that switches transport at runtime using manifest profile selection.
- Added README.md for build instructions and usage details.
- Created IDL definition for VehicleStatusFrame.
- Implemented publisher (switchable_pub.cpp) and subscriber (switchable_sub.cpp) with logging and signal handling.
- Updated tutorials to include manifest-profile switching guidance and clarified transport-specific templates.
- Added a new tutorial for end-to-end testing of manifest profile switching.

user_apps/tutorials/05_zerocopy_pubsub.md, after:

# 05: ZeroCopy Pub/Sub

## Target

- `autosar_user_com_zerocopy_pub_template`
- `autosar_user_com_zerocopy_sub_template`
- Source:
  - `user_apps/src/apps/communication/zerocopy/pub_app.cpp`
  - `user_apps/src/apps/communication/zerocopy/sub_app.cpp`

## Purpose

- Use shared-memory-based communication with the `ara::com::zerocopy` API.
- Understand the basics of Loan / Publish and TryTake.

## Positioning (Manifest-first roadmap)

- This tutorial is a transport-specific zero-copy template.
- It is intentionally focused on the iceoryx path and not on manifest-profile switching.
- For same-binary backend switching by manifest profile, follow `user_apps/src/apps/communication/switchable_pubsub/README.md`.

## Prerequisites

```bash
export AUTOSAR_AP_PREFIX=/opt/autosar_ap
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=${AUTOSAR_AP_PREFIX}/lib:${AUTOSAR_AP_PREFIX}/lib64:/opt/iceoryx/lib:${LD_LIBRARY_PATH:-}
```

Start RouDi if not already running.

## Run

Terminal 1:

```bash
./build-user-apps-opt/src/apps/communication/zerocopy/autosar_user_com_zerocopy_pub_template
```

Terminal 2:

```bash
./build-user-apps-opt/src/apps/communication/zerocopy/autosar_user_com_zerocopy_sub_template
```

## Customization Points

1. Adjust the channel identifiers (service/instance/event) to match your application values.
2. Calculate the loan size based on actual data size rather than a fixed length.
3. Add behavior for receive timeouts (retry, monitoring counter, etc.).
